Let's look at the concat methadone stream, which is neither an intermediate operation or a terminal
operation, but its definition from the APA is as follows.
The concat method creates a Lezley concatenated stream whose elements are all the elements of the first
stream, followed by all the elements of the second stream.
The resulting stream is ordered if both of the input streams are ordered and parallel.
If either of the input streams are parallel.
When the resulting stream is closed, the closed hand as for both input streams are invoked.
That sounds straightforward enough, but I want to explore what this means in some sample code.
So let's swing back to our idea.
We need a new class in our streams project as Cosman concat example's.
OK, so there's a code, so in this code and our main method, I'm creating two, three sets of top
string variables with a set of three strings.
That's our test data, so hopefully you remember that tree said as an ordered set and then they're printing
each set using a foreach with a method reference system throughout colon, colon, print one, moving
further and creating some streams, actually creating a stream for each set, using a set stream method
and again, printing each element, using the streams for each method with a method reference system
that out colon, colon print.
Let's run this.
The CDC output, no surprises so far, we're just setting the stage here.
So next, let's open some statements to the main method of concat examples.
Tannebaum.
So here I am using the concat method to merge stream one and stream two into a new stream called Merged,
if you're getting that this course as an exception, let's run up to see.
You're actually right, it does.
A legal state exception, we've got a similar message to we saw in the last video stream has already
been operated upon or closed.
And the Arizona law in 41, you remember that using force is a terminal operation on stream South Stream
one and stream to a close at this point and you cannot merge closed streams.
Let's go back up to our stream on a stream, too.
And I'm going to do is just comment out there for each or both will actually come in at the both lines
of output there, do the same for stream to server, remove the output print line and also the foreach
invocations.
Run this again.
This time we get the results, and that's because.
Because we know now working with streams that haven't been closed.
We're also looking at that the merge list is not a fully sorted list, but the elements of each stream
keep the order there in.
So that's there at an intermediate operation on the first stream, sorting in reverse.
I'll go back up the stream one.
What's the code stream one is equal to stream one dot sorted.
But in our parentheses we'll put a comparator.
A comparator.
Reverse order Methodist.
Looking at the first three elements there, Carol, Larry and Ralph, we run this, we should see there
are actually reversed.
We got Ralph, Larry and Carol, so the midstream excuse, the intermediate operations of each individual
stream on only those elements.
Right, so let's try another example here, this time of trial on stream to.
Let's add a filter stream to Eagles stream to that filter.
That's that alarmed expression, this is a token stock chart and in parentheses we put a stop length
parentheses minus one put are not equal to Y in single quotes and close off the line.
So here's what I'm doing.
Is adding the intermediate operation filter filtering out any elements with the last name of Y?
Just run the card.
We can see the output there, so not that Larry was not filtered out, but Mary was Larry was on stream
one prior to the merge and therefore the filter, in fact, on stream two was not applied to the entire
merged stream, but only those elements on stream to make another change in.
No comment at these definitions for stream one, a stream to.
I'll paste them some more code.
I'm changing the intermediate operations to peak in output, a bit of text different for each string
print of the code now.
So now that we've done that, executing the code made it very clear that each tree maintains its intermediate
operations and those can execute it from the merge stream, but only for the original streams elements.
So let's explore this a bit more.
Let's go back up to the original definitions for a tree.
One, they're going to add Mark to this entry or another entry.
You can say that Mark is now an element in both sets.
And let's say that by doing that, I do not want duplicate elements in my merge lists.
So what I'm going to do is add a distinct intermediate operation on the merge stream.
But first, we'll just run this to make sure we can see Mark in both streams.
You see, Mark is showing up in both.
But let's set this up now so that tarmac only appears once in our midst.
I'm going to change this for each year, committed out our place at.
With the courage you can see they're using distinctly run this.
So now that I've done that, first you can say that Mark is no longer duplicated, but what does Mary
have?
Dash Dash two printed twice before her name.
Well, the reason is, even though Mark was removed from the end result of the stream pipeline, the
operation on the first train still executed on the mark element, this case printing dash, dash to
dash, dash.
But Mark did not print out the second time demerged merged this print because the distinct operation
removed the second instance of Mark Foley.
Now what happens?
If we execute this statement that a posting so I want to use my first dream with all of its intermediate
operations and they'll merge it into a different one, this compiler.
So what's going to happen when I run it?
Well, let's run it.
You could say that we've got an illegal exception stream has already been operated upon or closed.
Now, the problem there with the merge stream code merged was closed, the other streams, stream one
and stream two were also closed.
So let's try something else that's let's come out both of those lines.
Try this instead.
Here, what I'm trying to do is defer the terminal operation until after I create the second merged
stream.
So what's going to happen when we run it?
Sameera illegal style exception, so similar to executing an intermediate operation without assigning
it back to another stream reference, passing a stream to the concat method makes to stream no longer
available.
So let's replace that law on sixty one coming to that place it.
Sameera has already being operated upon closed legal state exception.
Finally, let's replace that statement.
But this month.
Him changing the source of stream one.
What happens when we run it?
Let's do that.
This time, you could say that we were running for a bit.
We've got a concurrent modification exception, a line sixty 67.
Javas IPO for the concat method it this way, that Concat method operates on the two input streams and
binds each stream to its source.
As a result, subsequent modifications to an input stream source may not be reflected in the coordinator
stream result.
All right, so that's the reason for those errors.
In the video here in the next lecture, you'll be presented with a couple of quick questions after which
will move to the next section, we're going to be diving deeper into the operations on streams, specifically
with lambda expressions.
So good luck and I'll see you in the next section.